# HoC_Proj1
Douglas Schmieder
Nikolas Brooks


The goal of this project was to create sprites in an old-fashioned style similar to sprites seen on older systems. For our project specifically, we decided to use the video game Left 4 Dead and base our sprites off of that. We converted the main characters into sprite form and gave them simple animations. We also created sprites for a few other add-on characters. The primary focus of the project was to convert the characters that were created in the Left 4 Dead universe from their traditional 3D models to a 2D pixel version that one may find in old video games.
This is relevant to video game history as early video games primarily used 2D sprites. Even with the advent of 3D graphics, many games still utilized 2D sprites in their games instead of or along with the 3D models. For example, in Super Mario 64, the bomb-omb enemies were actually 2D sprites that are always tilted towards the camera to give players the illusion of them being 3D objects. This practice was not uncommon for many games throughout the 90’s. Even today, 2D sprite animation is popular in mobile games and indie games as 3D modeling and animation can be very expensive and time consuming for a small team to reasonably create. For example, Celeste was released not even two months ago on steam, and it uses 2D sprite animation throughout the entire game. The game also has a 93% on Metacritic showing that 2D sprite animation can still be used in a very popular game. 
Virtua Fighter, arguably one of the most important video games to advance 3D graphics for video games, was released in 1993. This game was one of the factors that inspired PlayStation to decide to base their PlayStation 2 on 3D hardware instead of on 2D hardware. This led to popular titles such as Tomb Raider and Final Fantasy VII being developed with 3D graphics instead of 2D. However, almost all popular games before this point utilized 2D sprite graphics for their art. 
